# An-exploration-of-linear-mixed-models-and-common-misconceptions-in-statistics

Within this portfolio we will be exploring many different aspects of statistics. The task revolves around using linear mixed models to solve a complex issue involving both random and fixed effects. Extending our knowledge of linear regression linear mixed model will incorporate both the fixed effects, random effects and the interaction between them. In addition, we will be creating and comparing different type of linear mixed models and exploring different sources of their variances to ultimately decide which model is best for our problem. From this, we will arrive at the model which best explains which treatment of pest control yields the largest amount of strawberries while accounting for the random variation between plants. 

Moving on, in the next section we will be analyzing both confidence intervals and values to better understand how to use these important statistical tools and what information they give us. Both these tools are widely used and unfortunately often used erroneously which often leads to results that are unreproducible. By using simulations and functions to interpret values we will aim to understand how these tools can be used and what meaning do their results convey. Particularly, with P values we will be discussing the controversy surrounding them and the dangers of interpreting the value incorrectly. 

Furthermore, this portfolio will discuss what reprex is, how it can be effectively used to reproduce code errors and an example of its usage. Lastly, in this portfolio there will be writing example provided commenting on an article written by Motulsky (2014).
